---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Data Sources
description: Connect a data source in order to run queries.
---

Evidence supports connecting to a databases, flat data files, and non-SQL data sources. 

You can connect to multiple data sources in a single Evidence project.

## Connect your data sources

To connect your local development environment to a database:

1. Run your evidence project with `npm run dev`
1. Navigate to [localhost:3000/settings](http://localhost:3000/settings)
1. Select your data source, name it, and enter required credentials
1. (If required) Open the `connections.yaml` file inside `/sources/[source_name]` and add any additional configuration options
1. (If required) Add [source queries](#configure-source-queries) 
1. Rerun sources with `npm run sources`

Evidence will save your credentials locally, and run a test query to confirm that it can connect.

Connections to databases in production are managed via [environment variables](/cli#environment-variables)

## Configure source queries

Evidence extracts data from all sources systems into a common storage format (called Parquet).

For SQL data sources, choose which data to extract by adding .sql files to the `/sources/[source_name]/` folder.

**N.B: These queries use the data source's native SQL dialect.**

```code
.-- sources/
   `-- my_source/
      |-- connection.yaml
      `-- my_source_query.sql
```

:::info[Non-SQL data sources]

For non-SQL data sources, configuring the data extracted is achieved in other ways. Refer to the documentation for the specific data source for details.
:::

## Run Sources

You can extract data from configured sources in Evidence using  `npm run sources`

## Supported data sources

Evidence supports:

- [BigQuery](#bigquery)
- [Snowflake](#snowflake)
- [Redshift](#redshift)
- [PostgreSQL](#postgresql)
- [Trino](#trino)
- [Microsoft SQL Server](#mssql)
- [MySQL](#mysql)
- [SQLite](#sqlite)
- [DuckDB](#duckdb)
- [MotherDuck](#motherduck)
- [Databricks](#databricks)
- [Cube](#cube)
- [Google Sheets](#google-sheets)
- [CSV](#csv-and-parquet-files)
- [Parquet](#csv-and-parquet-files)
- & More

We're adding new connectors regularly. [Create a GitHub issue](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/issues) or [send us a message in Slack](https://slack.evidence.dev) if you'd like to use Evidence with a database that isn't currently supported.

The source code for Evidence's connectors is available [on GitHub](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/tree/main/packages)


## Data source specific info

All databases can be connected via the UI settings page as described above. Where relevant, additional information is provided below.

### BigQuery

Evidence supports connecting to Google BigQuery by using the gcloud CLI, a [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts) and a JSON key, or an OAuth access token.

#### Logging in with the gcloud CLI

If you have the [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud) installed, you can log in to BigQuery using the following command:

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Evidence will use the credentials stored by the gcloud CLI to connect to BigQuery.

> *Note: Since gcloud requires browser access, this method is only available when developing locally.*

#### Create a Service Account Key

1. [Go to the Service Account Page](https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/create?supportedpurview=project) and click on your project
2. Add a name for your service account, then click Create
3. Assign your service account a role for BigQuery (scroll down the role dropdown to find BigQuery roles).
   1. **BigQuery User** should work for most use cases.
   1. **BigQuery Data Viewer** may be required (depending on your organization's permissions settings in Google Cloud).
   1. Reach out to us if you run into issues or need help with BigQuery permissions.
4. Click Continue, then click Done. You should see a table of users.
5. Click on the email address for the service account you just created, then click the **Keys** tab
6. Click Add Key, then Create New Key, then Create
7. Google will download a JSON Key File to your computer

#### Logging in with an OAuth access token

If you have an access token but can't download the gcloud CLI on the device you're deploying on and don't want to use a service account, you can use an OAuth access token.

An OAuth access token can be generated by running the following command on a device with the gcloud CLI installed:

```bash
gcloud auth application-default print-access-token
```
> *Note: This token will expire after 1 hour.*

Now you can copy the access token and use it in your Evidence project.


### Snowflake

Evidence supports connecting to Snowflake using a [Snowflake Account](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/api-authentication), [Key-Pair Authentication](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth.html), [Browser-Based SSO](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-use#label-browser-based-sso), or [Native SSO through Okta](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-use#label-native-sso-okta).  All Snowflake column names will be converted to lowercase in Evidence.

#### Snowflake Account
The Snowflake Account authentication method uses your Snowflake username and password to authenticate. If you don't have access to these, you will need to use one of the other authentication methods.

#### Key-Pair Authentication
The Key-Pair Authentication method uses a public/private key pair to authenticate. To use this method, you will need to [generate a public/private key pair](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth.html#label-generating-a-key-pair) and upload the public key to Snowflake.

#### Browser-Based SSO
The Browser-Based SSO method uses a browser-based SSO flow to authenticate. To use this method, you will need to [connect an SSO provider](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/admin-security-fed-auth-configure-idp) to your Snowflake account.

#### Native SSO through Okta
The Native SSO through Okta method uses Okta to authenticate. To use this method, you will need to have an Okta account with MFA disabled connected to your Snowflake account.

### Redshift
The Redshift connector uses the Postgres connector under the hood, so configuration options are similar.

### PostgreSQL

#### SSL

To connect to a Postgres database using SSL, you may need to modify the SSL settings used. Once you have selected a PostgreSQL data connection type, you can set the SSL value as follows:
 - `false`: Don't connect using SSL (default)
 - `true`: Connect using SSL, validating the SSL certificates. Self-signed certificates will fail using this approach.
 - `no-verify`: Connect using SSL, but don't validate the certificates.

Other SSL options will require the use of a custom connection string. Evidence uses the node-postgres package to manage these connections, and the details of additional SSL options via the connection string can be found at the [package documentation](https://node-postgres.com/features/ssl).

One scenario might be a Postgres platform that issues a self-signed certificate for the database connection, but provides a CA certificate to validate that self-signed certificate. In this scenario you could use a CONNECTION STRING value as follows: 

```
postgresql://{user}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{database}?sslmode=require&sslrootcert=/path/to/file/ca-certificate.crt
```

Replace the various `{properties}` as needed, and replace `/path/to/file/ca-certificate.crt` with the path and filename of your certificate.

### Trino

#### Supported Authentication Types

While Trino supports multiple [authentication types](https://trino.io/docs/current/security/authentication-types.html), the connector does currently only support the password based ones. Behind the scenes, the connector is using [Basic access authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication) for communicating with Trino.

#### HTTPS

To connect to a Trino installation that is accessible via HTTPS, you need to set the SSL option to `true` and the port to `443`/`8443` (unless you are using a non standard port for HTTPS, in which case you should use that instead).

#### Starburst Quickstart

[Starburst](https://www.starburst.io/), the company behind Trino, offers a SAAS solution where they run Trino for you. Once you have signed up and created a Trino cluster, you should be able to connect Evidence with the following configuration:

Host: `<YOUR_DOMAIN>-<YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME>.galaxy.starburst.io`

Port: `443`

User: `<YOUR_EMAIL>/accountadmin`

SSL: `true`

Password: The password you use to login to your Starburst account

Alternatively, you can also create a service account at `https://<YOUR_DOMAIN>.galaxy.starburst.io/service-accounts` and use this to connect.

### Microsoft SQL Server {#mssql}

#### Trust Server Certificate

The `trustServerCertificate` option indicates whether the channel will be encrypted while bypassing walking the certificate chain to validate trust. This option is disabled by default.

#### Encrypt

The `encrypt` option indicates whether SQL Server uses SSL encryption for all data sent between the client and server if the server has a certificate installed. Necessary for Azure databases.

### MySQL

#### SSL

SSL options are:

- `false` (default)
- `true`
- `Amazon RDS`
- A credentials object


### SQLite

SQLite is a local file-based database. It should be stored in the root of your Evidence project.

### DuckDB

DuckDB is a local file-based database. It should be stored in the root of your Evidence project.

See the [DuckDB docs](https://duckdb.org/docs/guides/index) for more information.

#### MotherDuck

To connect to MotherDuck, you will need a [service token](https://motherduck.com/docs/authenticating-to-motherduck/#authentication-using-a-service-token).

In the `filename` field, enter `md:?motherduck_token=[YOUR_SERVICE_TOKEN]`, and select `No extension` from the dropdown.

### Databricks

Databricks is a cloud-based data lake. Evidence supports connecting to Databricks using a [personal access token](https://docs.databricks.com/en/dev-tools/auth.html#generate-a-token).

### Cube

Cube offers semantic layer for your data. You can connect using the [Cube SQL API](https://cube.dev/docs/product/apis-integrations/sql-api). 

Cube's API is PostgreSQL compatible, so you can use the Evidence PostgreSQL connector to connect to Cube.

You can find the credentials to connect to Cube on the BI Integrations page under the SQL API Connection tab (you may need to enable the SQL API first).

### Google Sheets

Adding data from Google Sheets requires a a [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts).

To create a service account, see the [BigQuery instructions](#bigquery).

1. Create a service account, and download the JSON key file
2. Give the service account access to your Google Sheet by sharing the sheet with the service account's email address.
4. Add the JSON key file to your Evidence project via the [Settings page](localhost:3000/settings)
5. In the connections.yaml file, add the sheet id (which can be found in the URL of the Google Sheet, after `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/`).

```yaml
name: [your_source_name]
type: gsheets
options: {}
sheets:
   [your_workbook_name]: [your_sheet_id]
```

Query the sheet using the following syntax:

```sql
select * from [your_source_name].[your_workbook_name]_[your_tab_name]
```
  
Where `[your_tab_name]` is the name of the tab in your Google Sheet, with spaces replaced by underscores.



### CSV and Parquet files

In Evidence, you can query local CSV or Parquet files directly in SQL.

Get started by selecting the `CSV` connector on the Settings page in your project, naming it and then clicking "confirm changes". 

Then copy any CSV or Parquet files you want to query into `sources/[your_csv_source_name]/`.

The section below applies to both CSV and Parquet files.

#### How to Query a CSV File

Evidence looks for CSV files stored in a `sources/[your_csv_source_name]/` folder in the root of your Evidence project. You can query them using this syntax:

```sql
select * from your_csv_source_name.csv_file_name
```

## Troubleshooting

If you need help with connecting to your data, please feel free to [send us a message in Slack](https://slack.evidence.dev).
